[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: List Iteration.
I have the exclamation marks here because
I wanna remind you that even though this
is one of those helpers and
it oftentimes gets lumped in with
the other functional programming things,
most people say, don't do this one and
you'll see very quickly why.
If I made an iterate function, for
example, I wanted to take my array and
log out all the values in the array.
Cuz you notice I'm not actually performing
an operation on the list to change
something, I'm just performing
a operation with the value of the list.
But what's the only way that
doing that would mean anything?
Is if my predicate had a side effect,
right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Some side effect,
whether it's a console.log, or
changing it in the original array,
like an in place change or
something like that.
The only reason that a list
iteration would make any sense and
do anything useful to us at all is
if the predicate had a side effect.
We can probably spot why that's not
the favorite tool in a functional
programmer's bag.
So most functional programmers would
tell you never use the forEach,
cuz it's all about side effects.
Now, the problem with that is that
sometimes I do want side effects [LAUGH].
Which is why I call this
functional programming light,
because I don't wanna be restricted to
only doing purely functional stuff.
There are times when I want to iterate
over a list and have some side effects and
that's why I use for
agent as a tool in my bag, but
I use it knowing that it's not the same
thing as my other functional tricks.
It's different and
I use it that way on purpose.
There are people that will tell you,
no no, you should iterate with a map.
Can you iterate with map?
Of course you can.
You can iterate with map where its
predicate returns the same value, right?
Whatever function you
pass as that predicate,
if it returns the same thing it got,
that's the same thing as iterating, right?
That's what a functional programmer
tells you that's what you ought to do.
No.
That's not what I would do.
ForEach is the better tool if I want to
produce a side effect for each thing.
So that's the forEach function.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
any questions about our list operations?
Those are other tools that we have.
So we go back over it.
We've gone over a whole bunch
of these little basic things.
We haven't really fully covered
how we put all of them together.
That's what exercise four is gonna try to
bring some of that to more concreteness
and we'll do that after our lunch break.
But I just wanted to point
out that we've covered
quite a bit of ground here
in just a couple of hours.
From the very beginning, we talked about
pure versus unpure, and side effects.
And then we talked about
function composition and
how we can compose the function
to take it from impure to pure.
We can compose two functions so that
we're not creating impure side effects.
Then we talked about immutability and
we talked about the value of,
not just the mutable value but
the immutable way that we use the value.
That's the more important part
to a functional programmer.
Then we talked about closure,
keeping state inside of a function.
We talked about recursion and
why recursion can be useful,
a graceful way of expressing our programs.
Then we talked about talked
about these list operations.
Transform, exclude.
Transform's called map.
Exclude's called filter.
What's compose called?
Reduce.
And finally iterate is called forEach.